---
title: git – ignore vim temporary files in all directories
author: Sonia Hamilton
date: 2009-07-24
url: /2009/07/24/git-ignore-vim-temporary-files-in-all-directories/
categories:
  - Other-Tech
tags:
  - Git
  - Vim
---
Up until a few weeks ago I was using subversion for all my personal stuff.

<!--more-->

But then I got fredded when my free subversion hosting (xp-dev.com) went down for a few days, so I&#8217;ve moved to git. Yay, no more central repository to go down&#8230;

To ignore files in git you use .gitignore, eg for a rails project:

<pre>% cat .gitignore
log/*.log
tmp/**/*</pre>

But how to ignore files in all directories? Use .git/info/exclude. For example, to ignore all temporary files generated by vim:

<pre>% cat .git/info/exclude
.*.sw*</pre>

All the howto&#8217;s I&#8217;ve read so far mention .gitignore but not .git/info/exclude -- I stumbled across this by accident. More RTFM&#8217;ing to do&#8230;

**Correction**

To ignore all files in all directories, **.gitignore** can be used. A bit of experimentation and reading of **man gitignore** shows that any wildcard that doesn&#8217;t contain a / will apply to that directory and all child directories.

**.gitignore** is propagated during clone operations, whereas **.git/info/exclude** isn’t ie use the former for common settings and the latter for personal settings.

*From the manpage:*

Patterns which should be version-controlled and distributed to other repositories via clone (i.e., files that all developers will want to ignore) should go into a .gitignore file. Patterns which are specific to a particular repository but which do not need to be shared with other related repositories (e.g., auxiliary files that live inside the repository but are specific to one user´s workflow) should go into the $GIT_DIR/info/exclude file. Patterns which a user wants git to ignore in all situations (e.g., backup or temporary files generated by the user´s editor of choice) generally go into a file specified by core.excludesfile in the user´s ~/.gitconfig.
